iCub: Tony, can you tell me how was I created?
Tony: Your body was assembled in Italy but using parts from all over the world.  You have been designed over the last fifteen years by researchers from all over Europe.

<Italy> iCub: So I’m Italian?
Tony: Yes, originally, but now you live and work here in Sheffield, and we all hope that Teresa May will make it possible for you to stay here as long as you want to.

<Sheffield>iCub: That’s good. I like Sheffield.
Ok, that’s how my body was created, what about my mind?
Tony: Well your mind is generated by a computer program, created by my colleague Peter.

<program>iCub: So Peter is a mind maker? Cool!
Kind of, Peter’s real skill is in designing software dialogue agents.  In your case he took some past interviews from the Today programme and used some machine learning to create an agent that could do interviews.

<agent>So I’m an agent too.  Perhaps I can get a job at MI5?
Yes, I expect they are looking for robots there too.

<robots>Everyone wants robots, we are in demand.  What am I able to do?
You are programmed to ask questions in the style of the Today presenter Mishal.

<Today>Great. That sounds hard.  How do you make a program for that?
Well we took lots of past interviews that Mishal had done and we used artificial intelligence approaches to work out how she gets information from people.

<interviews>I guess she’s very polite to them.
Yes but she can be direct too, and sometime she won’t let them off the hook.

<direct>Ouch, that sounds painful. Ok, let’s move on.  We haven’t got very much time.  What are my limitations?
Like all current AIs you see patterns in data but you don't know how those correspond to the real world. So you don’t understand anything.  

<data>Really? So Tony, tell me how do I know which questions to ask?
Well simply put. We take the sounds I make and break them into chunks that correspond to sentences. Then we map those chunks of sound intro written text.  
#INTERRUPTS HERE Then we look for patterns of words in the text to match to questions in your database.

<chunks>Is that how Mishal works too?
Up to a point but there is a lot more going on in her head than in yours.

<head>You mean things like emotions?
Actually, I was thinking about beliefs, knowledge, and reasoning, but emotions too.

<beliefs>Now you are telling me I don’t have emotions. More bad news.
Perhaps, but since you are robot these things don’t really matter to you either way.

<matter>Moving on again, because we are almost out of time, do you think you will one day be able to program me to be as smart as the real Mishal.
I think its possible but it requires a very different approach that we call general AI.

<general>General AI, huh, Im a peaceful robot. I support the campaign against killer robots.
Ha ha. No, general as opposed to narrow AI. Right now all AIs, even the ones created by big companies like Google DeepMind, just do one thing, they are narrow experts, not general-purpose intelligence.

<narrow>Tony, I have to say that it has been most interesting talking to you.  However, I have no emotions so perhaps I wasn’t interested at all.  Anyway, thanks for coming in to the studio.  This job of radio presenter isn’t so hard, perhaps they don’t have general AI either!

Goodbye.
Goodbye.